When looking at words in a dictionary, the definition does a great job in describing the word, most of the time. As a reader, one needs to be critical and be able to decipher the true meaning. This is a frequent occurrence in politics and can lead to misinformation being spread that will ultimately affect certain ideas like democracy. Democracy is in decline and people are living in the illusion that concept works because of misinformation. Although it is hard to pinpoint one cause, some ideas play a larger role than others. Neoliberalism is an example and a major player in the downfall of democracy. The word itself feeds a lie when connected to democracy and has a history that affects the lives of today. Since the second half of the 20th century, the world has shifted to use neoliberalism as source to control politics and governmental decisions, and this idea changed the course for many countries. The question becomes, how are the economist achieving this and how does it affect democracy as one knows it? The usage of neoliberal politics is threatening democracy by detaching society from the reality of its economics and forcing a liberal narrative. By understanding the definition and usage timeline of neoliberalism, with support to understanding the concept and its alternative, along recent case study within India, a proper conclusion can be made about how neoliberalism is threatening democracy. To begin, it is fatal to have a working definition of neoliberalism that highlights its presence in the economic and political world. David Harvey describes neoliberalism as "liberating individual entrepreneurial freedoms ... [with] strong private property rights, free market and free trade" (Harvey, 2005, 2). This concept is praised by many because of its focus on individuality not being constrained by the state control. In The Defense of Neoliberalism, Jeremy Shearmur discusses how the state is the biggest exploiter of the marketplace because of the barriers that hinder on production by furthering people away from their freedom in the marketplace (Shearmur, 1992, 80). According to neoliberalist, state involvement become unnecessary because they do not possess the same knowledge as the economist (Shearmur, 1992). Shearmur describes how this idea of individuality and freedom can benefit individuals, and how he would "prefer [his] freedom, even if [he] anticipate the possibility of abusing it" (Shearmur, 1992, 77).  Theoretically, neoliberalism preaches to give individuals their freedom, however as Shearmur points out, people tend to abuse it. People can have their individual freedoms, however, when this freedom is abused, the masses are negatively affected. To claim that the state is uneducated in the marketplace, is an uneducated assumption within itself. Decisions made against the economist does not explain the confused state, instead it speaks for the constrained economist. The capitalist vision is not to gain the most profit while ensuring the security of the population, it is simply just to gain the most profit. Harvey states that neoliberals attempt to put the entire world into the marketplace because that is where they envision the maximum potential to be, and with no state regulation, the wealthy are free to control the masses (Harvey, 2005). Shearmur claims to be an "implacable opponent of tyranny and authoritarianism," however, neoliberalism tends to mirror the two ideas (Shearmur, 1992, 79).  Marriam - Webster dictionary describes neoliberalism as "a liberal who de-emphasizes traditional liberal doctrines in order to seek progress by more pragmatic methods" (Merriam-Webster n.d.). In other words, neoliberalism is liberalism in support of free market capitalism. The problem with definition is that once the free market is in control, the individualistic idea and lifestyle cease to exist because consumerism has taken over and the governments attention shifts to the people who control the country, the rich. Although, many have argued that governmental control over market is harmful because restrictions slow down the market and government workers do not understand, to a great extent, the economy(Olsen 2019). The idea of the markets being left alone by the government, gives power to individuals who control the economy. These individuals now play a very important part in the lifestyle of citizens and without regulations, they lead in their own ways, giving a sense of dictatorship. In addition, it can be agreed upon that regular market workers understand the concepts better than the government, although, worker tends to benefit themselves more than the society. When it comes to democracy, neoliberalism controls who is in power. The large players that have been given power to lead the economy, have more control of society than the governments themselves (Chomsky 1999).  When looking at neoliberalism in the broader lens, Profit Over People: Neoliberalism and Global Order by Noam Chomsky expands the discussion to give neoliberalism a new narrative. Chomsky describes neoliberalism as "capitalism with its gloves off" because of the absence of state control and freedom for capitalist (Chomsky & Mcchesney, 2011, 7). Neoliberal policies have pushed for the closure of public sectors because they have set up too many barriers around the individuals and promoted private enterprises to theoretically engage in individuality and freedom (Chomsky & Mcchesney, 2011). By doing so, they have dismantled the social welfare arena for the masses, leaving society to 'work for what they want'(Chomsky & Mcchesney, 2011). However, with neoliberalism and its control of the state, neoliberal policies favour only the wealthy few, which in result make it difficult for the lower to middle class individuals to prosper as a worker of the rich. Neoliberalism promotes the idea of free market and competition because state limitation would hinder on productivity and exceptional growth and control of a business. However, since there are no state limitations, wealthy key players have the control to make the markets work for what they want, leaving behind the masses to fend for themselves. In the theoretical, economist promote competition because seller and consumer relationship will support the seller far more. However, the reality of the situation is that there can never be a competition, where there is a possibility of a monopoly. The wealthy few do not compete, they overtake, including the state. This entire concept has intruded democracy and changed the way the control of state works. With neoliberalism, it is not power to the people, it is power to the wealthy. When Bill Gates was asked why he did not want to run for the presidency, he responded by saying that he has much of an "impact in [his current] role as [he] could in any political role," indicated the reality of the current control of the state (Bill Gates Says He'll Never Run for Office, 2012). The economic structure of neoliberalism has shown to impede heavily on the political world, where democracy is heavily threatened. In Undoing the Demos: Neoliberalism's Stealth Revolution by Wendy Brown, Brown explains how neoliberalism is undoing democracy by making the political arena into a marketplace (Brown, 2015). Once the marketplace is put in place the political structure is threatened. In the marketplace, the main issue of concern in the social welfare of the masses, it is the intense cumulation of wealth, where people are seen merely as consumers (Brown, 2015). As people are seen as consumers, their social liberty and equality are essentially forgotten because it is not the concern of the market. In the marketplace, elections have lost meaning because the power has been shifted to the wealthy individuals who control the economic arena (Brown, 2015). Hence, the political leaders keep the masses busy and uninformed of the marketplace, so the key players can profit. In hindsight, the current representation of democracy is essential to neoliberalism because it feeds the consumers the false narrative that their government sees them as people. In the economically obsessed world, democracy has lost its meaning to be controlled by the masses, however, the dictators are exceeding in keeping people in the dark. The entire narrative of neoliberalism is seen in many aspects of the world, however one region that needs to be discussed is India.  Indian history has proven to be complex, and their economic history is one to note down. The post-colonial country has been "rebranding" itself for years to fit the likings of investors to boost its economy (Kaur, 2020). After being in the shadows its colonizers, India was ready to have its own identity. With the power of marketing and push for a corporate build within the country, India has brought in key industries to give their economy a boost (Kaur, 2020). After the surge of economic 'growth' seen, the way in which Indian democracy works, was also about to change. After a series of events, India had found themselves to be in a balance of payment crisis due to the Gulf War and loans from foreign banks (Sangvikar et al., 2019). This issue needed to be solved immediately as India had found itself in despair. Finance Minister Monmohan Singh implemented the economic reforms initiative in 1991 to push for growth (Sangvikar et al., 2019). By implementing the economic reform initiative, Singh had brought about new changes to India that will serve the country for years to come. These economic reforms included various incentives for foreign investors that make the country favourable to invest. Some key changes made were that India had devalued its rupee, freed imports and exports, and encouraged private industries (Singh, 2000).  Most significantly however, was the repealing of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) (Singh, 2000). This act required companies whose assists exceeded Rs. 100 crore to register themselves in the MRTP (Singh, 2000). Because of this act, once a company under MRTP wanted to expand, they would need to receive permission from the government (Singh, 2000). However, after 1991, that had changed. Companies did not need to receive permission and therefore making India an interesting market for the foreign investors. The new neoliberal policies brought a big change for India's economy. With foreign investors entering the country because of the soft policies around the economy, India could not afford their departure as the nation was now relying on the income that it was bringing in. The neoliberal economist takes on India's politics have given India the feel of colonization once more. Along with the economy, Indian democracy is suffering a loss as well. The Indian democracy has been notoriously famous for its corruption and support for the wealthy. So much so, that is has been a stereotype for numerous Indian films when describing anyone in the world of politics. This idea has become a norm within their society. 1991 serves to be a great starting point because it is when the wealthy were given more freedom than they already have. India serves as a great example of neoliberalism threatening democracy because of the wealth disparity and the difference in livelihood amongst its citizens. 10% of India's population holds 77% of the national wealth, while 63 million are forced into poverty every year because they cannot afford healthcare cost (Oxfam, 2019). The social inequalities that present themselves to the county are the result of the implementation of neoliberal policies. Neoliberalism treats the public sphere as a marketplace and ignore the welfare of the masses, and this is evident within India.  Through all the turmoil India has been in because of neoliberal policies, one event has changed the course and given neoliberalism less power. The farmers protest of India served as an event against neoliberal policies. India's prime minister Narendra Modi introduced three new laws that were going to free the regulations around farming and their markets (Sethi, 2021). These laws were meant to bring about healthy competition, which was meant to improve the productivity of the farmers. However, that could never be the case since competition cannot exist if there are monopolies. Farmers took to the capital to protest these laws from August 9th, 2020 up until December 11th, 2021, where they were successful (Sethi, 2021). This moment of history is seen as a victory against the neoliberal policies. Neoliberalism, in history, as taken the power from democracy and will continue to do so. At the end of World War II, the world went through a major shift. Many countries decolonized and become independent (Paul A. Haslam 2021, 266). New doctrines and policies were being introduced, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the Bretton Woods institutions(Paul A. Haslam 2021, 266). Along with the major development that was happening, countries started going into debt because loans that were asked during the war (Paul A. Haslam 2021, 266). Through these new concepts, neoliberalism also saw its rise in countries like the US, the UK that brought in this idea to give the rich the control of economy and to encourage investments by also deregulating certain policies (Paul A. Haslam 2021, 271). As predicted, these policies have proven to be detrimental to democracy. Due to history, as neoliberalism continues and grows, democracy will stay in decline, or become extinct. The liberal agenda that neoliberalism hold is not correct and will continue prove to be deferential unless a change in the definition is made. Neoliberalism is not liberal; it is not for the individual it is for the rich.  With the constant misinformation being spread about the idea and the history that revolves around it, neoliberalism has proven to be a failing aspect of the future. When a deeper look is done on the definition and the current events surrounding the topic, significant information is revealed that does not favour the idea. It is a factor in the decline of democracy and will continue to do be so, unless there is a change. Neoliberalism has threatened the democratic world by furthering people away from social welfare and inequality, by being blindsided by the idea of individuality and freedom. The economic world has taken control of politics and democracy will become non-existent. For a very long time, gender inequality has been a problem that has required immediate attention. The question of whether or whether women should have fundamental rights, as well as the extent to which these rights should be extended, has been a topic of debate that is gradually beginning to converge on a similar agreement. Nevertheless, this consensus does not necessarily meet the interests of cultural or minority groups in all cases. Individuals' ability to properly self-identify as members of a group is essential to the functioning of a liberal democracy, and a liberal democracy is essential to the protection of group rights. Finding a middle ground between feminism and rights for groups of people might be challenging; but, is liberal democracy the best method to accomplish so? Group rights, despite the fact that they may play a role in individuality, mask tyranny by taking advantage of the concept of choice. Liberal democracy encourages uniqueness by encouraging people to make their own decisions. Examining the works of Susan Moller Okin and Martha C. Nussbaum enables one to investigate the ways in which liberal democracy has to be modified-or "tweaked," if you will-in order to accommodate the female agenda within the context of group rights. There are a lot of fascinating topics that are brought up in Susan Moller Okin's "Is Multiculturalism Bad for Women?" that appear to be contentious in the present day and age. She contends that "feminist and a multiculturalist commitment to group rights for minority cultures" are in substantial conflict with one another and that this contradiction is significant (Okin, 10). Because liberal democracies are not sufficiently advanced to evoke rights inside group minority individual rights, they are forced to differentiate and claim on group rights in order to promote the group rather than the person. When it comes to providing rights for the collective, liberal democracies fail to grasp that they are offering rights to the more powerful person in the group, which is the man. However, when it comes to providing rights for individuals, liberal democracies do not make this mistake. Okin illustrated his point with a compelling case from the African Arab minority in France, in which the French government sanctioned polygamy for one man on the grounds that it was within his cultural rights to do so. It was not until the testimonials presented by the ladies that the government came to the realisation that this mode of life is distancing the women from their individual liberties. This realisation came about completely by accident. When it comes to the law, group rights primarily take into consideration the natural rights that have a significant impact on the members of the group who are less powerful. Whether it be "the rules of marriage, divorce, child custody, division and management of family property," it has a tendency to favour the guy while ignoring the rights of females. [Citation needed] (Okin, 13). It is also quite obvious how these rules offer males additional power over women and their bodily and emotional selves by effectively preventing women from exercising control over themselves. This is something that is very evident. Okin is motivated to examine group rights as a result of her investigation of gender and culture. Within the context of the literature, minority groups are frequently portrayed as patriotic, and it is commonly believed that the introduction of western concepts, such as liberal democracies, would violate this right by bringing in the outside view of those countries. When one examines these collective rights, however, it becomes quite clear that women are not seen as human beings but rather as solely a means to an aim. Because of freedom of choice and the ability to self-identify, group rights are seen to be essential to the identity of people in the liberal defence. It is absolutely necessary to make it possible for individuals to follow such tractions in order to stop the extinction of some civilizations. If these rights of groups were infringed upon, then the validity of liberal democracies would be called into doubt. Okin contends that it would be for the best if certain groups were to become extinct since liberal democracies are unable to effectively manage the group rights, which results in an infringement of the basic rights of women. Okin goes on to propose that many things will continue to be a part of their private life even if liberal democracies interfere with these rights, and he says this will be the case for many of the issues. After the intervention of liberal democracies, and only then, will women finally be able to attain their fundamental rights in their entirety. When it comes to describing liberal democracies in regard to group rights, Okin does an excellent job. Some people's identities are inextricably bound up with the rights of their groups. It provides individuals with a sense of self-acknowledgement as well as the freedom to perform this right, which is made possible by liberalism. To ensure the continued survival of these communities in the new world, it is also crucial to grant them legal protections. However, when rights are granted to the community as a whole, weaker people are frequently disregarded. This feminist perspective on group rights is open to significant criticism due to the fact that it addresses the concerns of a sizable proportion of the female population. A damaging accusation against these groups is made when it is stated that the women who are affiliated with these groups require assistance. Having said that, it is the situation. Women who have grown up in these societies sometimes do not see the customs as being biassed against them since they are accustomed to the concept that it is the standard. Okin contends that since organisations are permitted to have these rights in liberal democracies, it is damaging for women since they would never be able to break away from the cycle. She says this because groups are allowed to have these rights. Even while this may be the reality of the situation right now, it is not the fault of liberal democracies that this is the case. It is the responsibility of organisations to ensure that their women have unfettered access to internal and external resources, yet far too often these groups restrict their members' ability to do so. Choice is limited by private lives and social groupings, but liberal democracies give it. The concepts that Okin has provided are tackled by Martha C. Nussbaum in her book "The Future of Feminist Liberalism," where they are given a comparable but distinct treatment. Nussbaum discusses the concept of human reliance, including how people may both provide and receive care, as well as the various ways in which academics have construed the concept of justice in relation to the idea of dependency. This idea of reliance is incompatible with that of liberalism since people value their independence, and contributing to society, especially societies that do not provide the same level of support back, can be counterproductive to liberal ideology. Nussbaum, on the other hand, asserts that these concepts are nothing more than challenges that encourage academics to adopt a different kind of liberalism. Dependence does the most harm to women than to anybody else because, despite the fact that they are dependent, they give services that are overlooked. When considering the role of justice in a family's everyday existence, Nussbaum brings up this concept for further examination. When considering the ways in which traditions might influence women to assume that there is nothing wrong in the present moment, this viewpoint is substantially similar to that of Okin. The influence that is presented upon women is generational and therefore, holds a significant weight upon these women. However, unlike Okin, Nussbaum does not consider liberal democracies to be insufficient, Nussbaum discusses how liberal democracies simply need expand to fit the criteria. When looking at both pieces of literature, both may come off as similar but are not necessarily so. Okin brings on a very realist perspective that tends to be controversial but needs to be discussed. This idea of culture versus human rights is heavily incorporation within this concept. It is important to give culture importance and a chance to survive in society, however, that culture should come with choice. Liberal democracies push for choice but should also be pushing for accessibility of the choice. That is the only area where liberal democracies lack significance. By looking at the works of Okin and Nussbaum, one can uncover such truth. Todd Gowen provides an exemplary explanation of identity politics, that sets his apart from the rest. People identity's forces a societal narrative amongst them because of history, which they cannot escape, and to ignore this would be foolish, however it was done by Francis Fukuyama. Suzanna Danuta Walters provides a great introduction to the concept that would later be perfected by McGowen. McGowan's understanding of identity politics poses to be the most persuasive because it is the opposite of Fukuyama, and he takes it many steps further than Walters. Francis Fukuyama reveals a very hypocritical and ironic approach to discussing identity politics in Against Identity Politics, which forces the reader to reject the legitimacy of his understanding of the topic. His argument of liberal democracies needing to work towards a universal understanding of human dignity or "they will doom themselves - and the world" is laughable, based on the literature provided (Fukuyama, 2018 p.3). Fukuyama relates the economic exploitation of African Americans and the white working class, by comparing the outcomes of deindustrialization, arguing that solidarity would bring solutions and marginalizing would slow down progression (Fukuyama, 2018). However, the irony behind this claim is that it is only possible because of identity politics, otherwise, marginalized groups would continue to be far inferior to even that of the working class (where the white man wouldn't even want the black man to join in solidarity). According to Fukuyama, identity politics is the downfall of large-scale-socio-economic change because marginalized communities wanted to be recognized equally and "celebrate" their difference; examples of such communities who want to be celebrated and not reconciled, are the Indigenous who had their land stolen from them and are treated like outsiders, African Americans who continue to feel the aftermath of slavery, and women who will never be equal to men (Fukuyama, 2018 p.6). It is because of their need for redistributive programs that "discouraged work, savings, and entrepreneurship "that led the state into a financial crisis, and not because of pushback on economic exploitation leading to deindustrialization in the U.S and into areas where humans can still be exploited, according to Fukuyama (Fukuyama, 2018 p.6). In all arguments made against identity politics by Fukuyama, he states that "the worst thing about identity politics ... is that it has stimulated the rise of identity politics on the right" (Fukuyama, 2018 p.8). The support given to Donald Trump during the 2016 elections, regardless of racial comments, comments against the disabled, endorsement from a Ku Klux Klan leader, several lawsuits, and many more, can only be explained by the rights adapting victim language from the left (Fukuyama, 2018 p.9).  Fukuyama's work cannot include a strong argument against identity politics unless he can prove that marginalized groups are in the workforce based on fate rather than rebellion, only then can he push the importance of the economic. His article is weak because even he cannot deny the significant work done by identity politics to bring individuals to a close equilibrium. It is his megalothymia that helps him ignore the problems of the individuals below him. Unlike Fukuyama, Suzanna Danuta Walters makes the argument for identity politics in In Defense of Identity Politics. She states how people relate Hilary Clintons loss to her recognition of identity politics and not promoting solutions for the 'general' person (Walters, 2018). It is a white mans rhetoric that confuses people who are not comfortable seeing the marginalized groups be anything other than marginalized. Walters considers identify politics to give people recognition, so they are part of the solution, and not the disruptive inclusion (Walters, 2018). Identity politics pushes discussion of serious issues that affect marginalized groups. As Walters provided a good argument that identity politics brings recognition that people would otherwise be denied of, her article is not persuasive. Walters quotes Hadley Freeman in her article stating, "identity politics sceptics are white men, whose articles are filled with quotes from other white men," it can be argued that Walters is essentially doing the same thing (Walters, 2018 p.5). With continues mention of external sources, whether it be to refute or agree, her claims become vague and uninteresting because the reader cannot pick up an original thought. As she may have provided a definition, it is one that is like many others, therefore causing it too not be persuasive. In comparison to the rest, Todd McGowan's has provided the most persuasive understanding of identity politics in This is Not Identity Politics because he defines it very simply discusses how it is included in a bigger discussion. By removing the phrase "identity politics" from a leftist narrative, McGowen discredits conservative thinkers who consider themselves to be opponents of identity politics (McGowan, 2020). McGowen describes identity politics with its "immediacy" to share issues with others who share the same identity, rather than having to "deal with annoying others who clamor about issues that don't directly concern [people with different identities]" (McGowen, 2020 p.205). This usage of identity politics is seen across the political spectrum; the left being a struggle of the universal with movements being formed by recognizing the inequalities discussed in identity politics, and the right being a struggle for particularism, where their identity will motivate certain movement (not often) (McGowen, 2020). The Black Lives Matter movement is the movement of the universalist because it is advocating for equality. Race is not included to give power to differences, "but because race is the site of inequality", and to ignore it, in the matter of police brutality, would reject that racism is the driving factor, when it clearly is (McGowen, 2020 p.250). Pushing for "colourblindness" does not fix the issue because it does not attack the root of the issue, which is racism in police society (McGowen, 2020 p.250). McGown great job in explaining that identity politics is not about different identities constantly asking to be recognized, "celebrated", and reconciled, but rather identity politics pushes the discussion of inequality, which the groups will then fight for in a universal movement. By accepting that individual identities can house inequality and is far more important that just being recognized, McGown has provided the most persuasive argument for understanding identity politics. Fukuyama's argument being inconsistent and ignorant, leaves the reader to be shocked that a person can even write such words and be credited. Walters (if I'm being honest) provided a dull response compared to her counterparts, where identity discussing recognition doesn't progressive the conversation to great lengths. Identity politics is simply the driving force of movements, making it important today, otherwise solidarity would have ignored marginalized groups. As the use of the internet has become far more popularized in recent years, privacy has become an issue of great concern. The internet may be the biggest item that solidifies this fear to protect privacy, however, privacy should have always been protected. The concept of having nothing to hide is only made to assist in national security but causes structural problems for the individual. In "I've Got Nothing to Hide" and Other Misunderstandings of Privacy by David J Solove, he highlights how secrecy is a component of privacy and other factors are ignored, causing a misconception of what it means to protect privacy. By understanding points made by Solove with the help of his Taxonomy of Privacy, connections to the current era can be made, with a case study involving governmental power, one can truly understand the importance of Solove's argument. Solove touches on the infamous argument in defence of governmental surveillance, "I've got nothing to hide", as a response to selective forms of privacy that have been propagated into ignoring other factors. When discussing privacy and governmental surveillance, it is crucial to reference the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, as that date potentially marks the beginning of a shifted narrative. The attacks intensified nationalist ideology amongst many Americans who shared a common identity (Li & Brewer, 2004). This justified extreme breach of privacy from the government to the people, where the people were in agreeance because they were afraid of a potential reoccurrence (Li & Brewer, 2004). This moment of history gave the argument of having nothing to hide significance because individuals were not afraid to being accused of a crime because they were doing nothing wrong, and if there were wrongdoers, they should be found before the crime is committed (Solove, 2007). Solove argues that privacy is misunderstood to simply be about secrecy, when, in hindsight, privacy is an umbrella term for pluralistic conceptions that touches on issues beyond secrecy (Solove, 2007). According to Solove, if providing an opposing argument, to the argument of having nothing to hide, consist to reasons of why information should be hidden, the conversation would be an ongoing debate of the individual's extent of secrecy (Solove, 2007) The Taxonomy of Privacy, created by Solove, touches on 4 different sections of privacy that bring forward issues that go beyond that of secrecy (Solove, 2007). Information collection involves the tactics of pertaining information and determining if it is justifiable. Information processing is "analysis and manipulation of data" that can form narratives on people, regardless of the narratives being correct or not (Solove, 2007 p. 758). Information Dissemination is information that can be used against individuals. This information does not need to be criminal. Lastly, Solove includes a section of Invasion, a topic that has shown to be significant, in recent years, in opposing the long-standing argument of "I've got nothing to hide". With social media and access to information at a far greater position than it was during the events of September 11th (and since this article has been published), there is a shift in people's narrative of privacy. One can say that the new narrative of privacy includes the discussion of all 4 sections of Solove's Taxonomy. As people's online presence increases, they witness the extent of information collected by observing the non-consensual revelation of others. Before this era, people were aware and used phrases like "he is always watching", however, now they get to witness the legitimacy of that statement and how there are no blind spots. It becomes scary, like an intruder being in one's home always watching. Along with the consent stare down of surveillance, online presence can form the narrative of a person's real-life persona. As seen with the influencer culture of social media, heavy online presence can lead to strong benefits financially in the real world, however, the stronger the presences, the harder it is to control the narrative. Cancel culture has discredited individuals, where factors as great as employment are hindered in a person's life. This is all done by outside interpretation of one's public opinion, which can lead to life altering events. With the growth of the internet and its ability to store information forever, people have become weary of what they choose to showcase, as it is information that is permanently attached to them. This information is not necessary criminal, but it is one that will change the course of a person's life. As processing information can be seen as narratives built on an interpretation given by the individual, dissemination is information given, against the will of the individual. This can include explicit pictures of people and personal information of individual under threat. As these acts themselves may be criminal, once the act is done, the victims are permanently attached to their online presence. Given, when asked about privacy before 2007, It can be assumed that people pictured the government being the sole-carriers of this information for security purposes. Nevertheless, people are becoming more and more aware of the overwhelming accessibility of their information. However, this paragraph is not to discuss the invasion done by private factors, but by the government itself. A very significant argument made by Solove was that the government denies people their right of the fourth amendment, if information if obtained is by third party sources, because it is considered public information (Solove, 2007). During the 2016 elections, Facebook became a platform for promoting misinformation to targeted audiences to influence the voting trends of certain regions (Eligon, 2018). Along with misinformation being fed to Facebook users, Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm, was selling personal information of people on Facebook to political campaigns to alter the outcomes of the election (Eligon, 2018). As the two mentioned entities are not governmental, it is significant that their breach of privacy was to alter the governmental process of democracy. One can say that the narrative of blaming platforms like Facebook and Cambridge Analytica is propaganda to relive the government of any blame. This is ironic because it is the leader who are benefitted the most from these acts and to ignore their involvement is foolish. It is disgusting (no better word could be used) to see the social practice of widespread inclusionary thought tainted with misinformation and inconsideration of privacy. Democracy truly does not exist. The arguments made by Solove can be seen as an introductionary approach to discussing privacy because of its ability to touch on the basic understandings of the topic. During the publication of the article, society did not receive information with the speed that it does now and could not delete information with the same efficacy as it could before. Solove's article was one that was beyond its era, but his arguments have caught up to society. It is ironic that the screens people were never afraid of, grew to give them reasons to be afraid. 