Honourable Senators, Members of the House of Commons, Fellow
Canadians, Ladies and Gentlemen, every day on our shared
planet, millions face hardships that test the human spirit. Extreme
weather, wildfires, poverty, conflicts, discrimination, and
inequalities. Rarely though, has all of humanity faced a single
common insidious enemy. An invisible enemy that respects no
borders, thrives anywhere, hits anyone. To overcome a pandemic
requires the work and resolve of every order of government,
every community, and every one of us. We don’t decide when
hardship comes, but here in Canada, we have decided how we
wanted to address it. We have adapted in remarkable ways. We
Canadians did our part. We changed our habits, postponed our
plans, switched to teleworking or had to completely reinvent our
work, all this, while caring for one another. We owe an immense
debt to those who served and still serve on the frontlines, to
health care personnel and essential workers, women and men in
uniform, volunteers and leaders, everywhere in the country. There
has been a lot of suffering and we all mourn those who have
passed. We trust science to lead the fight until a safe and effective
vaccine becomes available. But until then, we must keep our
guard up, using the tools that are available to us now – such as
testing, treatments and physical distancing measures. Like a reed
in high winds, we might sway but we will not break. Because our
roots are firmly in place, our goals clear, and because we have
hope – the hope that lifts the soul on dark days and keeps us
focused on the future. Canadians have lived through uncertain
times before and have always prevailed because determination,
concern for others, courage, and common sense define our
nation. We must bring all those qualities to bear once again and
continue to work for the common good, and for a better, safer,
and more just society. This is who we are and what will see us
through to brighter days. For over 150 years, Parliamentarians
have worked together to chart Canada’s path forward. Your
predecessors met when Confederation was only a few months
old, setting the course for a young country. They stood united
through Canada’s toughest days, leading the nation through wars
and depression. And as they did, each Parliamentarian was called
to meet their times. Today, Canadians expect you to do the same.
They expect you to work together on their behalf and meet this
crucial moment. Less than a year ago, we gathered here for a
Throne Speech to open the 43rdParliament. Since then, our
realities have changed. And so must our approach. This pandemic
is the most serious public health crisis Canada has ever faced.
Over 9,000 Canadians have died in six months. For our neighbours
in the United States, this figure is over 200,000. Globally, it’s nearly
a million. But these aren’t just numbers. These are friends and
family. Neighbours and colleagues. The pandemic is the story of
parents who have died alone, without loved ones to hold their
hand. It is the story of kids who have gone months without seeing
friends. Of workers who have lost their jobs. The last six months
have laid bare fundamental gaps in our society, and in societies
around the world. This pandemic has been hard for everyone. But
for those who were already struggling, the burden has been even
heavier. For parents – and especially moms – who are facing
impossible choices between kids and career. For racialized
Canadians and Indigenous Peoples who are confronted by
systemic barriers. For young people who are worried about what
their future will hold. For seniors who are isolated, frightened, and
most at risk. And for workers who, while earning the lowest wages
in the most precarious sectors, have been on the frontlines of the
pandemic. We must address these challenges of today. But we
also cannot forget about the tests of the future. The world came
into this pandemic facing the risks and consequences of climate
change. A lesson that COVID-19 has taught us, is that we need to
match challenges with decisiveness and determination. On all of
these fronts – health and the economy, equality, and the
environment – we must take bold action. The Government will
meet these challenges. The Government’s approach will have four
foundations. The first foundation of this plan is to fight the
pandemic and save lives. The second foundation of the
Government’s plan is supporting people and businesses through
this crisis as long as it lasts, whatever it takes. Effectively dealing
with the health crisis is the best thing we can do for the economy.
Government action has already helped Canadians stay safe, and
buffered the worst economic impacts. The third foundation is to
build back better to create a stronger, more resilient Canada. To
do this, we must keep strengthening the middle class and helping
people working hard to join it, and continue creating jobs and
building long-term competitiveness with clean growth. We must
also keep building safer communities for everyone. The fourth
and final foundation of this plan is to stand up for who we are as
Canadians. We cannot forget what has made us a country that is
welcoming. A country that celebrates two official languages. That
achieves progress on gender equality, walks the road of
reconciliation, and fights discrimination of every kind. This is our
generation’s crossroads. Do we move Canada forward, or let
people be left behind? Do we come out of this stronger, or paper
over the cracks that the crisis has exposed? This is the time to
remember who we are as Canadians. This is the opportunity to
contain the global crisis and build back better, together. The first
foundation of the Government’s approach is protecting
Canadians from COVID-19. This is priority number one. It is the
job of the federal government to look out for all Canadians and
especially our most vulnerable. We need to work together.
Beating this virus is a Team Canada effort. Over the last six
months, Canadians have stood united and strong. Their actions
embody what has always been the purpose of the federal
government: bringing Canadians together to achieve common
goals. Personal protective equipment (PPE) has been shipped
across the country. Members of the Canadian Forces were there
in long-term care homes. Close to 9 million Canadians were
helped with the Canada Emergency Response Benefit (CERB) and
over 3.5 million jobs were supported by the wage subsidy. The
Government will continue to have people’s backs just like
Canadians have each other’s backs. Through the first wave,
contact tracing and testing ramped up across the country. The
surge this fall further reinforces what we already know – that we
must do even more. The federal government will be there to help
the provinces increase their testing capacity. Canadians should
not be waiting in line for hours to get a test. At the same time, the
Government is pursuing every technology and every option for
faster tests for Canadians from coast to coast to coast. As soon as
tests are approved for safe use in Canada, the Government will do
everything it can to see them deployed. The Government will also
create a federal Testing Assistance Response Team to quickly
meet surge testing needs, including in remote and isolated
communities. Local public health authorities are the backbone of
our nation’s efforts to stop outbreaks before they start. As
members of the communities they protect, they know the
devastating economic impact a lockdown order can have. To
prevent small clusters from becoming major outbreaks,
communities may need to enact short-term closure orders. To
make that decision easier for the public health authorities, and to
help ease the impact that science- and evidence-based decisions
can have on local businesses in the short term, the Government
will work to target additional financial support directly to
businesses which have to temporarily shut down as a result of a
local public health decision. This will ensure that decisions are
made with the health of Canadians as the first priority. The
Government will also continue to work on what communities need
more broadly. The Government has already invested over $19
billion for a Safe Restart Agreement with provinces and territories,
to support everything from the capacity of health care systems to
securing PPE. To address the challenges faced by provinces and
territories as they reopen classrooms, the federal government
invested $2 billion in the Safe Return to Class Fund, along with
new funding for First Nations communities. This is money to keep
kids – and staff – safe in the classroom, whether that’s by helping
schools buy cleaning supplies or upgrade ventilation. These
commitments build on federal investments to support people who
are most at risk and those who care for them, including with the
federal wage top-up for personal support workers. People on the
frontlines who have been looking after seniors do vital work and
the Government will continue to have their backs. At the same
time, the Government will continue to support Canadians as they
take action to keep each other safe. Already, people are doing
their part by wearing masks. That’s important, and we can build
on that commitment. Working with private sector partners, the
federal government created the COVID Alert app. Canadians living
in Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, New Brunswick, and
Saskatchewan now have an extra tool to keep themselves and
others safe. The Government hopes all the others will sign on so
that people in all parts of the country can both do their part and
be better protected. The Government will also continue to work
on getting Canadians the PPE they need. This spring, the
Government issued a call, and thousands of Canadian businesses
and manufacturers responded. From shop floors to companies
big and small, Canada’s dynamic businesses met the challenge as
their workers stepped up. And in less than six months, Canadians
are now manufacturing almost all types of PPE. The Government
will continue building that domestic capacity, while securing
supply chains to keep Canadians safe and create jobs. Canadians
are pulling together, whether that’s with PPE manufacturing,
through the COVID Alert app, or by wearing a mask. In the same
way, Canadian researchers and scientists are pitching in to the
Team Canada effort with their knowledge and expertise. In the
long run, the best way to end this pandemic is with a safe and
effective vaccine. Canada’s vaccine strategy is all about ensuring
that Canadians will be able to get a vaccine once it is ready. There
are many types of potential candidates. Canada is exploring the
full range of options. The Government has already secured access
to vaccine candidates and therapeutics, while investing in
manufacturing here at home. And to get the vaccines out to
Canadians once they’re ready, the Government has made further
investments in our capacity for vaccine distribution. From the
Vaccine Task Force that provides the best advice on vaccine
purchasing and roll-out, to the Immunity Task Force looking at
how COVID-19 is affecting vulnerable populations, Canada’s top
scientific minds are guiding the Government every step of the
way. The medical and scientific fight against this virus is crucial.
And so are the livelihoods of every single Canadian, worker, and
family. So the second foundation of the Government’s approach is
supporting Canadians through this crisis. The economic impact of
COVID-19 on Canadians has already been worse than the 2008
financial crisis. These consequences will not be short-lived. This is
not the time for austerity. Canada entered this crisis in the best
fiscal position of its peers. And the Government is using that fiscal
firepower, on things like the Canada Emergency Response Benefit
and the Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy (CEWS), so that
Canadians, businesses, and our entire economy have the support
needed to weather the storm. Canadians should not have to
choose between health and their job, just like Canadians should
not have to take on debt that their government can better
shoulder. People losing their jobs is perhaps the clearest
consequence of the global economic shock that Canadians – like
those in other countries – have faced. The CERB helped people
stay healthy at home while being able to keep food on the table.
The CEWS helped people keep their jobs, or be rehired if they had
been laid off. But there is still more to be done. Unemployment is
in the double digits, and underemployment is high. Women,
racialized Canadians, and young people have borne the brunt of
job losses. Canadians need good jobs they can rely on. To help
make that happen, the Government will launch a campaign to
create over one million jobs, restoring employment to previous
levels. This will be done by using a range of tools, including direct
investments in the social sector and infrastructure, immediate
training to quickly skill up workers, and incentives for employers
to hire and retain workers. One way the Government will create
these jobs is by extending the Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy
right through to next summer. The Government will work with
businesses and labour to ensure the program meets the needs of
the health and economic situation as it evolves. Another example
of how the Government will create jobs is by significantly scaling
up the Youth Employment and Skills Strategy, to provide more
paid work experiences next year for young Canadians. Now, more
than ever, Canadians must work together – including by
eliminating remaining barriers between provinces to full, free
internal trade – to get the economy back up and running and
Canadians back to work. With the job losses that Canadians have
faced, it became clear early on that many people would need help
until they could find work once again. But existing income support
systems were not designed to handle this unprecedented
situation. That’s why the Government moved quickly to create the
Canada Emergency Response Benefit as a temporary program to
help millions of Canadians get through a very difficult time. With
the economic restart now well underway, CERB recipients should
instead be supported by the Employment Insurance system. For
people who would not traditionally qualify for EI, the Government
will create the transitional Canada Recovery Benefit. Over the
coming months, the EI system will become the sole delivery
mechanism for employment benefits, including for Canadians
who did not qualify for EI before the pandemic. This pandemic has
shown that Canada needs an EI system for the 21stcentury,
including for the self-employed and those in the gig economy.
Women – and in particular low-income women – have been hit
hardest by COVID-19. This crisis has been described as a she-
cession. Many women have bravely served on the frontlines of
this crisis, in our communities or by shouldering the burden of
unpaid care work at home. We must not let the legacy of the
pandemic be one of rolling back the clock on women’s
participation in the workforce, nor one of backtracking on the
social and political gains women and allies have fought so hard to
secure. The Government will create an Action Plan for Women in
the Economy to help more women get back into the workforce
and to ensure a feminist, intersectional response to this pandemic
and recovery. This Plan will be guided by a task force of experts
whose diverse voices will power a whole-of-government
approach. It has been nearly 50 years since the Royal Commission
on the Status of Women outlined the necessity of child care
services for women’s social and economic equality. We have long
understood that Canada cannot succeed if half of the population
is held back. Canadians need more accessible, affordable,
inclusive, and high quality childcare. Recognizing the urgency of
this challenge, the Government will make a significant, long-term,
sustained investment to create a Canada-wide early learning and
childcare system. The Government will build on previous
investments, learn from the model that already exists in Quebec,
and work with all provinces and territories to ensure that high-
quality care is accessible to all. There is broad consensus from all
parts of society, including business and labour leaders, that the
time is now. The Government also remains committed to
subsidizing before- and after-school program costs. With the way
that this pandemic has affected parents and families, flexible care
options for primary school children are more important than ever.
The Government will also accelerate the Women’s
Entrepreneurship Strategy, which has already helped women
across Canada grow their businesses. As the Government invests
in people, it will continue to support job-creating businesses.
Small businesses are the lifeblood of communities and the
backbone of the economy. The Government introduced a range of
supports for Canadian businesses, from help with payroll through
the Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy to assistance with expenses
through interest-free loans. COVID-19 has caused businesses
across the country, both large and small, to rethink their
approaches. Entrepreneurs and owners are looking at more
digital options, more creative solutions, and more climate-friendly
investments. The Government will help businesses adapt for the
future and thrive. This fall, in addition to extending the wage
subsidy, the Government will take further steps to bridge
vulnerable businesses to the other side of the pandemic by:
Expanding the Canada Emergency Business Account to help
businesses with fixed costs; Improving the Business Credit
Availability Program; And introducing further support for
industries that have been the hardest hit, including travel and
tourism, hospitality, and cultural industries like the performing
arts. This COVID-19 emergency has had huge costs. But Canada
would have had a deeper recession and a bigger long-term deficit
if the Government had done less. With interest rates so low,
central banks can only do so much to help. There is a global
consensus that governments must do more. Government can do
so while also locking in the low cost of borrowing for decades to
come. This Government will preserve Canada’s fiscal advantage
and continue to be guided by values of sustainability and
prudence. There are two distinct needs. The first is to help
Canadians in the short term, to do whatever it takes, using
whatever fiscal firepower is needed to support people and
businesses during the pandemic. The best way to keep the
economy strong is to keep Canadians healthy. The second need is
to build back better, with a sustainable approach for future
generations. As the Government builds a plan for stimulus and
recovery, this must be done responsibly. In the longer term, the
Government will focus on targeted investments to strengthen the
middle class, build resiliency, and generate growth. The
Government will also identify additional ways to tax extreme
wealth inequality, including by concluding work to limit the stock
option deduction for wealthy individuals at large, established
corporations, and addressing corporate tax avoidance by digital
giants. Web giants are taking Canadians’ money while imposing
their own priorities. Things must change, and will change. The
Government will act to ensure their revenue is shared more fairly
with our creators and media, and will also require them to
contribute to the creation, production, and distribution of our
stories, on screen, in lyrics, in music, and in writing. This fall, the
Government will release an update to Canada’s COVID-19
Economic Response Plan. This will outline the Government’s
economic and fiscal position, provide fiscal projections, and set
out new measures to implement this Throne Speech. This update
will make clear that the strength of the middle class, and the
wellbeing of all Canadians, remain Canada’s key measures of
success. As we fight for every Canadian and defend everyone’s
ability to succeed, we also need to focus on the future, and on
building back better. This forms the third foundation of the
Government’s approach. Around the world, advanced economies
are realizing that things should not go back to business as usual.
COVID-19 has exposed the vulnerabilities in our societies. The
Government will create a resiliency agenda for the middle class
and people working hard to join it. This will include addressing the
gaps in our social systems, investing in health care, and creating
jobs. It will also include fighting climate change, and maintaining
a commitment to fiscal sustainability and economic growth as the
foundation of a strong and vibrant society. Central to this is
recognizing that one of the greatest tragedies of this pandemic is
the lives lost in long-term care homes. Elders deserve to be safe,
respected, and live in dignity. Although long-term care falls under
provincial and territorial jurisdiction, the federal government will
take any action it can to support seniors while working alongside
the provinces and territories. The Government will work with
Parliament on Criminal Code amendments to explicitly penalize
those who neglect seniors under their care, putting them in
danger. The Government will also: Work with the provinces and
territories to set new, national standards for long-term care so
that seniors get the best support possible; And take additional
action to help people stay in their homes longer. The Government
remains committed to increasing Old Age Security once a senior
turns 75, and boosting the Canada Pension Plan survivor’s benefit.
The Government will look at further targeted measures for
personal support workers, who do an essential service helping the
most vulnerable in our communities. Canada must better value
their work and their contributions to our society. COVID-19 has
disproportionately affected Canadians with disabilities, and
highlighted long-standing challenges. The Government will bring
forward a Disability Inclusion Plan, which will have: A new
Canadian Disability Benefit modelled after the Guaranteed
Income Supplement for seniors; A robust employment strategy
for Canadians with disabilities; And a better process to determine
eligibility for Government disability programs and benefits. Over
the last six months, it has become clearer than ever why
Canadians need a resilient health care system. The Government
will ensure that everyone – including in rural and remote areas –
has access to a family doctor or primary care team. COVID-19 has
also shown that our system needs to be more flexible and able to
reach people at home. The Government will continue to expand
capacity to deliver virtual health care. The Government will also
continue to address the opioid epidemic tearing through
communities, which is an ongoing and worsening public health
crisis. Additionally, the Government will further increase access to
mental health resources. All Canadians should have the care they
need, when they need it. We will all be stronger for it. The same
goes for access to the medicine that keeps people healthy. Many
Canadians who had drug plans through work lost this coverage
when they were laid off because of the pandemic. So this is
exactly the right moment to ramp up efforts to address that. The
Government remains committed to a national, universal
pharmacare program and will accelerate steps to achieve this
system including: Through a rare-disease strategy to help
Canadian families save money on high-cost drugs; Establishing a
national formulary to keep drug prices low; And working with
provinces and territories willing to move forward without delay. In
addition to good health infrastructure, Canadians also need
strong, safe communities to call home. The Government has
banned assault-style firearms. The Government will also continue
implementing firearms policy commitments, including: Giving
municipalities the ability to further restrict or ban handguns; And
strengthening measures to control the flow of illegal guns into
Canada. Women’s safety must be the foundation on which all
progress is built. The Government will accelerate investments in
shelters and transition housing, and continue to advance with a
National Action Plan on Gender-Based Violence. To keep building
strong communities, over the next two years the Government will
also invest in all types of infrastructure, including public transit,
energy efficient retrofits, clean energy, rural broadband, and
affordable housing, particularly for Indigenous Peoples and
northern communities. In the last six months, many more people
have worked from home, done classes from the kitchen table,
shopped online, and accessed government services remotely. So it
has become more important than ever that all Canadians have
access to the internet. The Government will accelerate the
connectivity timelines and ambitions of the Universal Broadband
Fund to ensure that all Canadians, no matter where they live, have
access to high-speed internet. And to further link our
communities together, the Government will work with partners to
support regional routes for airlines. It is essential that Canadians
have access to reliable and affordable regional air services. This is
an issue of equity, of jobs, and of economic development. The
Government will work to support this. Strong communities are
places where everyone has a safe, affordable home. No one
should be without a place to stay during a pandemic, or for that
matter, a Canadian winter. This week, the Government invested
more than $1 billion for people experiencing homelessness,
including for this fall. In 2017, the Government announced that it
would reduce chronic homelessness by 50 percent. The
Government has already helped more than a million people get a
safe and affordable place to call home. Given the progress that
has been made, and our commitment to do more, the
Government is now focused on entirely eliminating chronic
homelessness in Canada. At the same time, the Government will
also make substantial investments in housing for Canadians. The
Government will add to the historic National Housing Strategy
announced in 2017 by increasing investments to rapid housing in
the short term, and partnering with not-for-profits and co-ops in
the mid- to long-term. For the middle class, the Government will
also move forward with enhancements to the First-Time Home
Buyer Incentive, including in Canada’s largest cities, so families
can afford to buy their first home. Housing is something everyone
deserves, and it’s also a key driver of the economy. Construction
projects create jobs, and having a home is critical so people can
contribute to their communities. Just like everyone deserves a
home, everyone deserves to be able to put nutritious food on the
table. The pandemic has made that harder for Canadians. The
Government will continue to work with partners – including
directly with First Nations, Inuit, and Métis Nation partners – to
address food insecurity in Canada. The Government will also
strengthen local food supply chains here in Canada. The Canadian
and migrant workers who produce, harvest, and process our food
– from people picking fruit to packing seafood – have done an
outstanding job getting good food on people’s plates. They
deserve the Government’s full support and protection. The
Government will also ensure that those in Canada’s supply
managed sectors receive full and fair compensation for recent
trade agreements. Farmers keep our families fed, and we will
continue to help them succeed and grow. This pandemic has
revealed gaps in health, housing, and food supply. And it has also
laid bare inequalities Canadians face in the workforce. We have an
opportunity to not just support Canadians, but grow their
potential. Working with the provinces and territories, the
Government will make the largest investment in Canadian history
in training for workers. This will include by: Supporting Canadians
as they build new skills in growing sectors; Helping workers
receive education and accreditation; And strengthening workers’
futures, by connecting them to employers and good jobs, in order
to grow and strengthen the middle class. From researchers
developing vaccines, to entrepreneurs building online stores, this
pandemic has reminded us of the power of the knowledge
economy, and how vital it is for our future. Canadians are leading,
and they should have government services that keep up. The
Government will make generational investments in updating
outdated IT systems to modernize the way that Government
serves Canadians, from the elderly to the young, from people
looking for work to those living with a disability. The Government
will also work to introduce free, automatic tax filing for simple
returns to ensure citizens receive the benefits they need.
Government must remain agile, and ready for what lies ahead.
Climate action will be a cornerstone of our plan to support and
create a million jobs across the country. This is where the world is
going. Global consumers and investors are demanding and
rewarding climate action. Canadians have the determination and
ingenuity to rise to this challenge and global market opportunity.
We can create good jobs today and a globally competitive
economy not just next year, but in 2030, 2040, and beyond.
Canadians also know climate change threatens our health, way of
life, and planet. They want climate action now, and that is what
the Government will continue to deliver. The Government will
immediately bring forward a plan to exceed Canada’s 2030
climate goal. The Government will also legislate Canada’s goal of
net-zero emissions by 2050. As part of its plan, the Government
will: Create thousands of jobs retrofitting homes and buildings,
cutting energy costs for Canadian families and businesses; Invest
in reducing the impact of climate-related disasters, like floods and
wildfires, to make communities safer and more resilient; Help
deliver more transit and active transit options; And make zero-
emissions vehicles more affordable while investing in more
charging stations across the country. A good example of adapting
to a carbon-neutral future is building zero-emissions vehicles and
batteries. Canada has the resources – from nickel to copper –
needed for these clean technologies. This – combined with
Canadian expertise – is Canada’s competitive edge. The
Government will launch a new fund to attract investments in
making zero-emissions products and cut the corporate tax rate in
half for these companies to create jobs and make Canada a world
leader in clean technology. The Government will ensure Canada is
the most competitive jurisdiction in the world for clean technology
companies. Additionally, the Government will: Transform how we
power our economy and communities by moving forward with the
Clean Power Fund, including with projects like the Atlantic Loop
that will connect surplus clean power to regions transitioning
away from coal; And support investments in renewable energy
and next-generation clean energy and technology solutions.
Canada cannot reach net zero without the know-how of the
energy sector, and the innovative ideas of all Canadians, including
people in places like British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and
Newfoundland and Labrador. The Government will: Support
manufacturing, natural resource, and energy sectors as they work
to transform to meet a net zero future, creating good-paying and
long-lasting jobs; And recognize farmers, foresters, and ranchers
as key partners in the fight against climate change, supporting
their efforts to reduce emissions and build resilience. The
Government will continue its policy of putting a price on pollution,
while putting that money back in the pockets of Canadians. It
cannot be free to pollute. This pandemic has reminded Canadians
of the importance of nature. The Government will work with
municipalities as part of a new commitment to expand urban
parks, so that everyone has access to green space. This will be
done while protecting a quarter of Canada’s land and a quarter of
Canada’s oceans in five years, and using nature-based solutions
to fight climate change, including by planting two billion trees.
The Government will ban harmful single-use plastics next year
and ensure more plastic is recycled. And the Government will also
modernize the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. When the
Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration was closed by a
previous government, Canada lost an important tool to manage
its waters. The Government will create a new Canada Water
Agency to keep our water safe, clean, and well-managed. The
Government will also identify opportunities to build more resilient
water and irrigation infrastructure. At the same time, the
Government will look at continuing to grow Canada’s ocean
economy to create opportunities for fishers and coastal
communities, while advancing reconciliation and conservation
objectives. Investing in the Blue Economy will help Canada
prosper. This is a fight for Canadians today and Canada
tomorrow. So we must never forget the values that make us who
we are. The fourth and final foundation of the Government’s
approach is defending Canadian values and ensuring they are
lived experiences for everyone. Canada is a place where we take
care of each other. This has helped Canada weather the pandemic
better than many other countries. Canada must continue to stand
up for the values that define this country, whether that’s
welcoming newcomers, celebrating with pride the contributions
of LGBTQ2 communities, or embracing two official languages.
There is work still to be done, including on the road of
reconciliation, and in addressing systemic racism. Throughout the
pandemic, the Government has made it a priority to support
Indigenous communities, which has helped contain the spread of
COVID-19 and kept people safe. That is something the
Government will continue to do. The Government will walk the
shared path of reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples, and
remain focused on implementing the commitments made in 2019.
However, the pandemic has shown that we need to keep moving
forward even faster on a number of fronts including by:
Expediting work to co-develop distinctions-based Indigenous
health legislation with First Nations, Inuit, and the Métis Nation,
and a distinctions-based mental health and wellness strategy;
Accelerating work on the National Action Plan in response to the
National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women
and Girls’ Calls for Justice, as well as implementation of the Truth
and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to Action; And continuing
to close the infrastructure gap in Indigenous communities,
working on a distinctions-basis with First Nations, Inuit, and the
Métis Nation to accelerate the government’s 10-year
commitment. The Government will also: Make additional
resiliency investments to meet the clean drinking water
commitment in First Nations communities; And support additional
capacity-building for First Nations, Inuit, and the Métis Nation. The
Government will move forward to introduce legislation to
implement the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples before the end of this year. For too many
Canadians, systemic racism is a lived reality. We know that racism
did not take a pause during the pandemic. On the contrary,
COVID-19 has hit racialized Canadians especially hard. Many
people – especially Indigenous people, and Black and racialized
Canadians – have raised their voices and stood up to demand
change. They are telling us we must do more. The Government
agrees. The Government pledged to address systemic racism, and
committed to do so in a way informed by the lived experiences of
racialized communities and Indigenous Peoples. The Government
has invested in economic empowerment through the Black
Entrepreneurship Program, while working to close the gaps in
services for Indigenous communities. Important steps were taken
with the release of Canada’s Anti-Racism Strategy for 2019-2022,
the creation of an anti-racism secretariat, and the appointment of
the first-ever Minister focused specifically on diversity and
inclusion. This is all good, but much more needs to be done for
permanent, transformative change to take shape. The
Government will redouble its efforts by: Taking action on online
hate; Going further on economic empowerment for specific
communities, and increasing diversity on procurement; Building a
whole-of-federal-government approach around better collection
of disaggregated data; Implementing an action plan to increase
representation in hiring and appointments, and leadership
development within the Public Service; And taking new steps to
support the artistic and economic contributions of Black Canadian
culture and heritage. Progress must also be made throughout the
policing and justice systems. All Canadians must have the
confidence that the justice system is there to protect them, not to
harm them. Black Canadians and Indigenous Peoples are
overrepresented in the criminal justice system. That has to
change. The Government will take steps to ensure that the strong
hand of criminal justice is used where it is needed to keep people
safe, but not where it would be discriminatory or
counterproductive. The Government will: Introduce legislation
and make investments that take action to address the systemic
inequities in all phases of the criminal justice system, from
diversion to sentencing, from rehabilitation to records; Move
forward on enhanced civilian oversight of our law enforcement
agencies, including the RCMP; Modernize training for police and
law enforcement, including addressing standards around the use
of force; Move forward on RCMP reforms, with a shift toward
community-led policing; And accelerate work to co-develop a
legislative framework for First Nations policing as an essential
service. Our two official languages are woven into the fabric of
our country. The defence of the rights of Francophones outside
Quebec, and the defence of the rights of the Anglophone minority
within Quebec, is a priority for the Government. The Government
of Canada must also recognize that the situation of French is
unique. There are almost 8 million Francophones in Canada within
a region of over 360 million inhabitants who are almost exclusively
Anglophone. The Government therefore has the responsibility to
protect and promote French not only outside of Quebec, but also
within Quebec. In this vein, 51 years after the passage of
the Official Languages Act, the Government is committed to
strengthening this legislation among other things, taking into
consideration the unique reality of French. Immigration remains a
driver of Canada’s economic growth. With other countries
rejecting global talent that could help their economy, Canada has
an opportunity as we recover to become the world’s top
destination for talent, capital, and jobs. When people choose
Canada, help build Canada, and make sacrifices in support of
Canada, we should make it easier for them to formally become
Canadian. Earlier this year, the Government announced measures
to grant permanent residency to people who, although not
Canadian citizens, had cared for the most vulnerable in long-term
care homes and other medical facilities. The Government will
continue to bring in newcomers and support family reunification.
We know that there is an economic and human advantage to
having families together. As part of both the short-term economic
recovery and a long-term plan for growth, the Government will
leverage the advantage we have on immigration to keep Canada
competitive on the world stage. We must take action on all of
these priorities at home. But we must also address the world in
which we live. COVID-19 has accelerated the existing trends
toward a more fragmented global order. It remains in Canada’s
interest to create and maintain bilateral and multilateral
relationships to advance peace and economic prosperity. The
Government will invest more in international development while
supporting developing countries on their economic recoveries
and resilience. Canada will also support work to ensure that
people around the world have access to a vaccine. We cannot
eliminate this pandemic in Canada unless we end it everywhere.
The Government will also continue to stand up for human rights
and the rule of law. It is unacceptable that any citizen be
arbitrarily detained. Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor must be
brought home. This is something for which all Canadians stand
united. The Government will continue to fight for free trade,
including by leading the Ottawa Group to reform the World Trade
Organization. Our likeminded allies and partners are investing to
make sure their societies emerge stronger. This Government’s
plan does that as well. Taken together, this is an ambitious plan
for an unprecedented reality. The course of events will determine
what needs to be done when. But throughout, protecting and
supporting Canadians will stay the top priority. And the core
values that have driven the Government since day one remain the
same. In 2015, Canadians asked their government to deliver real
change on everything from middle class jobs to climate change. In
2019, the people chose a Parliament that would keep moving
forward on these shared goals. And in 2020, Canadians expect
nothing less. It is no small task to build a stronger, more resilient
country. It will take hard work. It will require a commitment to
finding common ground. Parliamentarians, Canadians have
placed a trust in you to guide this country forward. They have
placed their faith in you to work together to meet whatever
challenges we face. Remember that we are here today because of
the generations of Canadians who came before us. We are here
because of the women and men – our parents, grandparents, and
great-grandparents – who had the courage to reach for a better
future. Today, it is our turn. Our moment to build a stronger and
more resilient Canada for everyone. Members of the House of
Commons, you will be asked to appropriate the funds to carry out
the services and expenditures authorized by Parliament. Members
of the Senate and Members of the House of Commons, may you
be equal to the profound trust bestowed on you by Canadians,
and may Divine Providence guide you in all your duties.
